In a previous video we've looked at how to install
and configure laravel passport.
Now in this video we're going continue our lesson and look at how to make an enpoint to handle
the access token.
We are then going to see how to request the tokens in postman. So let's go ahead and pull open api
dot php in our routes folder
then inside here
let's define a post route
I'm gonna say token which refers to auth login controller get token
alright
now let's open the login controller
then inside here let's define the get token method
this method is going to take an argument request
And then inside here we're going to perform the password grand tokens by hitting the oauth token
endpoint.
Now to hit the oauth/token endpoint and get the token back
we need to pass in at least 5 things: grant_type, client_id, client_secret, username and password.
Ideally we can hit a certain endpoint from the client while client brings some data to be sent.
But for this case it's slightly different.
Yes we can get username and password from the client or from the form to be precise so we can provide
a username and password inputs in the client side and get those values when the user submit the form
But we cannot do that for the other three: grant_type, client_id and client_secret because if we put those
in the hidden inputs in local storage or something else then it will be very risky.
It's very insecure to put sensitive information on the client.
That's why we are gonna hit the oauth/token endpoint in here grab the user name and password that
are being sent from the client and inject the three values in here.
So how can we do that? Well to do that we can say Request request then we'll follow with add method then
inside here will pass in an array which will contains the five things that I've mentioned earlier
so the first one is grant type and the value is going to be password because we're going to perform
password grant token
next we'll have client_id. and it's going to take the number of the password grant go to terminal
and here the number is 2
next we'll have client secret
let's also grab that from here.
Next we'll have username and password
and we're gonna take both of those from request username and request password
so by through this way we added these
five values to the request object.
Now we can create a request to oauth/token endpoint by saying request create
pass in the endpoint in this case
http localhost
colon eight thousand oauth token
or to make it work both in development or production
Here we can remove this http://localhost:8000
and before that we'll add env app
underscore URL
And don't forget to adjust the APP_URL in our .env file
so here I'll add the port number
and then in the second argument we can tell that this request is going to be post requests. This create
method
return the request object.
So here let's assign this into a variable let's say
Request token
now we can then actually hit the request by saying route dispatch and pass in the request token
the dispatch method will return a response object so we can also assign it into another variable let's
say response.
And lastly we can return the response object
and don't forget to import this route facade on the top here.
Alright so now that we have token route that we'll hit the get token action
the get token we'll basically hit the oauth token on the fly.
Okay now let save all changes
and try this out in postman.
If you don't have that
Just go to get postman dot com
Hit download the app and then install on your computer.
Once you have postman install you can open it and make a test request.
Here we gonna hit the token endpoint.
We're gonna need post methods and then url
is going to be http localhost colon 8000
API token. We also need to specify the header
in this case
We need to specify accept and the value is going to be application json and the most important is to
specify the request body
let's choose the raw
choose application json then inside here let's specify the username and password in json format.
Let me go to the thinker
and I'll get the first user
password
It's going to be secret. Now
If I hit the send button
here I get internal server error
I get error class request does not exist.
Let me import  that at the
top here
save hit the send button again.
It's look like I made typo here and find that here
OK
This should be request save that hit send again.
There we go.
Now I have access taken back.
Awesome. Letter we'll come back here and use this access token to hit the authenticated endpoint such
as create new question.
Edit existing question and so on.
Note that we'll need this stuff only in postman when we access our up in the browser
we no longer need to do this stuff because as I said in the previous video that by specifying the create fresh
api token laravel passport will take care of all those things for us by attaching a laravel token cookie
to our outgoing responses which contains an encrypted JWT
All right before we move on to the next lesson let's save this test request by
firstly go to collection create a collection here I'm going to call laravel
q/a restful API hit create button
and hit this save button request name get token
select the collection and hit save to laravel Q A request API All right see you in the next lesson.